Methodology: 
This study aims to conduct a cross-national observational study testing the relationships between constitutional design – specifically mentions of the military– and resulting coups and external conflict. We implement a country-year research design, with constitutional measures lagged to reduce simultaneity/reverse causality concerns, that military action lead to the new constitutions, rather than the mechanism in question.This project draws on existing research and datasets: the analysis of constitutions primarily comes from the Comparative Constitutional Project, consisting of country-year observations of constitutional characteristics. The key characteristic of concern for our research is “MILITARY_” which codes to 1 for mentions of military. The status of each country is measured at the first year in the CCP database between 1946-2014 where the constitution is in force as a baseline, and outcomes are measured for each country in the period baseline+1. Coup attempts are measured through the Colpus 1.0 dataset, using the variable “coup_attempt” coding to 1 if any coup attempt occurs in a given country-year. Conflict outcomes are drawn from the Militarized Interstate Participants Dataset (MIP), using the conflict_year_ variable, coded to 1 if a country participates in a militarized confrontation during a given year. We choose to aggregate the periods between the listed start years and end years of conflicts for each country, constructing a measure of total period spent in interstate conflict.  Analysis is restricted to the period of 1946-2014, as this is the period of overlap of existing data. 

Once data is collected and organised, eliminating observations outside the 1946-2014 period, analysis is conducted through a chi square test to identify dependence between mentions of military in constitutions and coup incidence, and a Welch two sample t-test of the number of conflict years per country with respect to mention of military in constitutions. As the measure (Military) and outcome (coup_attempt) are binary, a chi square test allows us to test whether coup outcome probabilities differ between constitutional categories, as the test compares observed to expected values. If the resulting χ² value is large, we will have strong evidence against the null hypothesis of independence. For H2, foreign conflict is being operationalised as a numeric count of conflict years per country. Mean differences are tested using a two sample t-test as true population variance is unknown, and the sample size is sufficient (N>30) to approximate the normal distribution, per the Central Limit Theorem. 

Results: [Research Project POU33011.pdf](https://github.com/user-attachments/files/24388319/Research.Project.POU33011.pdf) 


